>> Steve Kinney: So let's just briefly
kind of just talk a few more things
about cookies, and
then we will kind of get a little more
nuance to everything we're doing.
One of the policies that we'll see
both in terms of how we can access
resources when it comes to stuff like
fetch and stuff along those lines,
and slightly with cookies, there's
some nuance to it is a foundational
principle of the Web is this thing
called the same origin policy.
Which is,
if you've ever got yelled at by CORS,
you already know what I'm talking about.
And to be clear,
if you've ever been like, I hate CORS,
we'll change that by the end of this day,
CORS is your friend.
So the origin is basically a tuple,
tuple with three parts in it,
a triple, if you will,
which is protocol, host and port.
If any of those things are different,
then they are not the same origin, right?
Which means host is the full subdomain and
everything.
So that would be
whatever.frontendmasters.com, right?
The port obviously in production
is usually 80 for http,
which we're not using anymore, right?
Or 443 for https.
And then protocol is again,
whether it's http, ftp, what have you.
Cuz we all use ftp from
the browser these days, right?
If any of those change,
they are not the same origin.
Now, I will just see this in your brains
now so we can reference it later.
You would think yeah, origin,
that's like a site, same site and
same origin mean two different things,
kind of sort of.
And we will talk about
that in a little bit.
And that is, again,
one of those first places where
the little nuances of the differences
can mean everything for us.
And there have historically
been lots of ways around it.
There was the dark days
of JSON with padding.
Yeah, well Websock document.domain,
which is interesting,
there was a time period where you could
actually on a given website be like,
I understand that I am
like stevekinney.net.
But I wanna say that my domain
is frontedmasters.com and
that way we can be the same origin or
site in this case.
Now it is super interesting because
it seemed like a good idea, which is,
because I couldn't just say that
I am frontendmasters.com and
access their stuff, right?
They would also have to go in there and
say they'd have to set,
if you just redocumented that domain,
it's whatever site you're on,
the domain site, you could also set it.
So Frontend Masters could say,
okay, in their code,
document.domain equals Frontend Masters to
opt in, and then if I did it on my site,
we could share the same origin.
What's the problem with that?
So could anyone else.
Right, it's like one of those good ideas
that as soon as you think about it for
an extra second, right falls apart.
So there have been various different ways
around this, CORS is the acceptance Way.
And so rather than thinking of
course as some kind of burden,
it is probably better to think
about this course as a actual
reasonable way to deal with the same
origin policy that is in the browsers.
I did look up like, I was like, what was
the world like before the same origin
policy or anything along those lines,
and there's not a lot of years in it.
I think the same origin policy
drops in like 2001, but
it was something like when
only IE5 had AJAX or whatever,
there was a brief period of four years
where they didn't simultaneously exist.
But it has always been the case that for
most of modern web development for
at least the last 20 years,
they have always simultaneously existed.
Cool, but as we kind of saw before,
right, losing your cookies, man,
can that be the title of this section?
Losing your cookies has some bad
things we saw, we could see, again.
I encrypted it, I signed it,
I could still lose it, right?
Someone could still get access to it,
cuz again,
if they can inject malicious JavaScript,
right?
There's a way that maybe they can
get it now, if I say it's http only,
I'm probably a little bit
safer there as well, right?
If I do it over https,
I'm safer than as well.
Like cookies, arguably,
because they're so important,
have probably more safety mechanisms, and
they are places where like Chrome and
Firefox and Safari have just
decided to break the web, right?
Cuz in terms of we don't break the web,
sometimes we do when in terms of cookies.
So a lot of times, cookies feel scary
because they are usually the thing that
got you in trouble or in the famous
security vulnerabilities that we've seen.
But because of that,
they are also at this point have
the most protections around them.
But yeah if you have a problem with it,
it is going to be problematic.